Add more context on Conflict/serialisation error (#544)
memgraph/documentation: pages/help-center/errors/serialization.mdx

---

> title: Conflicting transaction and serialization error

Reviewer: Do you want this title to be on the sidebar menu as well (it's a bit long maybe). Currently Serialization is still on the sidebar menu, but if users are seeing a Conflicting transaction error, it might be better to put that on sidebar. Wdyt?

Author: Agreed

description: Learn about conflicting transaction and serialization errors as well as troubleshooting best practices for serialization errors on our all-in-one documentation page at Memgraph. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Conflicting transaction and serialization error

<Callout type="info">
If you are encountering issues with serialization errors, we're here to help. Join the conversation on <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph" target="_blank">Discord</a> for support.
</Callout>

## Error messages

1. [Unable to commit due to serialization error.](#error-1)

> 2. [Cannot resolve conflicting transactions.](#error-1)

Reviewer: This part should be removed now?

Author: I would leave it for the time being, not 100% sure that there is no log from serialization error in QM for example. So let's keep it for now.

Reviewer: But these two lines are links to the non-existent sections.

Author: Aha, let me check.

Author: Done

## Understand the conflicting transaction and serialization error [#error-1]

Conflicting transaction and serializations is in a sense the same error, that 
usually occurs when there are concurrent data imports and

> transactions try to work on the same data points at the same time. This

Reviewer: Conflicting transactions and serializations are, in a sense, the same error that usually occurs when concurrent data imports and transactions try to work on the same data points simultaneously. This situation can occur in both testing and production environments. It's important that your code anticipates and handles these errors.

situation can occur in both testing and production environments. It's important that your code anticipates and handles these errors. 

A common scenario that triggers an error is when two nodes in a graph are being updated by two
different transactions attempting to add edges between them at the same moment, changing a property, label, etc. 
The same applies to edges as well. In essence, it is a write-write conflict.
For example, if both transactions try to add an edge at the same time to 

> an identical node, the error will happen. 

Reviewer: Please use relationships across docs to stay consistent

To address these problems, consider the following strategies:

- **Retry the transaction:** The basic approach would be to retry the transaction
  that failed. This can be done by catching the error and then retrying the
  transaction. This is a simple and effective way to handle the error.

>   Here is a simple example of how to do it in Python via Neo4j client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Here is an example of how to do it in Python via Neo4j client:
```

            jitter = random.uniform(0, jitter) * initial_wait_time 
            wait_time = initial_wait_time * (backoff_factor ** attempt) + jitter
            print(f"Commit failed on attempt {attempt+1}. Retrying in {wait_time} seconds...")
            time.sleep(wait_time)
        except Exception as e:
            print(f"Failed to execute transaction: {e}")
            session.close()
            raise e
  ```

  Keep in mind that adjusting the `max_retries`, `initial_wait_time`, `backoff_factor`, and `jitter` is important to avoid overloading the system with retries. 
  For more information on how to handle retries and adjust parameters, please refer to the respective [client documentation](../../client-libraries.mdx) since examples will vary based on different clients.

- **Understand the client you are using**: Neo4j clients in managed transactions, 
  have built-in logic to automatically retry transactions that fail due to serialization errors.
  There's typically a timeout associated with these retries, after which the
  client will forward the error to the application code. It is important for
  developers to be aware of this and implement additional error handling as

>   needed.

Reviewer: Understand the client you are using: Neo4j clients in managed transactions have built-in logic to retry transactions that fail due to serialization errors automatically. Typically, a timeout is associated with these retries, after which the client will forward the error to the application code. Developers must be aware of this and implement additional error handling as required.

  Here is an example of Managed API in Python Neo4j Driver:

  ```python
  def process_chunk_managed_API(query, create_list):
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(HOST_PORT, auth=("", ""))
    with driver.session(max_transaction_retry_time=180.0, initial_retry_delay=0.2, retry_delay_multiplier=1.1, retry_delay_jitter_factor=0.1) as session:
        session.execute_write(lambda tx: tx.run(query, {"batch": create_list}))
    driver.close()
  ```

  Again, for the details of how specific clients work, please refer to the respective [client documentation](../../client-libraries.mdx).

- **Avoid conflicts**: This can be done by
  implementing application-level logic to prevent concurrent transactions from
  modifying the same data points. This strategy can significantly reduce the
  likelihood of encountering errors. It will also lead to better performance 

>   since the system is not spending time resolving conflict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  since the system is not spending time resolving conflict.
```

Handling serialization errors effectively is essential for maintaining a smooth
user experience and ensuring the reliability of your application. Implementing
robust error handling and conflict avoidance mechanisms can mitigate the impact
of these errors.

> While some client drivers may handle serialization errors by retrying transactions, 
> developers should not solely rely on this mechanism. Always include comprehensive error  
> handling in your application to address cases where the error persists beyond the retry logic. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While some client drivers may handle serialization errors by retrying transactions, 
developers should not solely rely on this mechanism. Always include comprehensive error handling in your application to address cases where the error persists beyond the retry logic. 
```

Reviewer: There was an extra empty space here, causing part of the line to skip into new line (check local deployment)
